Grace mercy and peace be unto you from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Again, a portion of the Old Testament reading from Isaiah chapter 42.
Behold my servant whom I uphold my chosen in whom my soul delights.
I have put my spirit upon him and he will bring forth justice to the nations.
He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street.
A bruised read he will not break and a faintly burning wick
He will not quench.
He will faithfully bring forth justice.
He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law.
If you'll join me in a word of prayer.
Lord God Heavenly Father, we gather in your presence this morning.
We give thanks for the witness and the evidence of your kingdom found in the baptism of our Lord Jesus Christ.
that Jesus our King came as one who was also a humble servant.
He willingly was baptized in order that we also might be baptized with the same baptism that we might be named and called children of God.
Lord, we ask that you would lead us to see your son Jesus Christ this morning, his mercy, his grace, his forgiveness, and the ways that he opened to us also the promise of the life that is to come.
We give thanks for these promises we pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Congregation may be seated.
Pastor Meisler's not here this morning, so I can talk about him for just a minute.
Actually, I'll just borrow his words.
If you've heard Pastor Meisler pray, one of the things that he's fond of saying and including in his prayers is,
praying to our Lord, Lord, your mercies are new every day.
And truly as we grow as people of faith, as we walk the road of discipleship, that is what we come to learn and know and see and understand in ways that are often surprising, in ways that are sometimes unexpected, often unexpected.
And in ways that are greater certainly than what we could have ever imagined, maybe even as new Christians or new believers or being younger as we walk the road of faith, is that when we cast our eyes upon Jesus, our Lord, when we look to Him, truly we see a picture of a merciful God.
In Jesus Christ, we see the picture of God's love, His mercy, His forgiveness,
His comfort for those of us that walk through this weary world, the ways that he is faithful beyond imagination.
So this morning as we see Jesus come to his own baptism, the beginning of his ministry in this earthly world, in this earthly life that he came into, we see the beginning, we see him as a servant, we see him in his humility coming forth, the beginning of his ministry,
But Isaiah, going back to the Old Testament, paints a picture.
Even before we see Jesus, Isaiah saw him and gave us these glimpses, this picture of who the true king would be.
I'll invite us this morning to reflect on these things for a few minutes.
Truly as Christians, we never grow tired or we should never grow tired of looking to our Lord Jesus Christ, of seeing him and knowing him, of taking in his goodness.
So we can reflect on that this morning.
In Isaiah chapter 42, we find a picture of the great king, the long promised king, the one who was to come and who would rule over the nations.
Isaiah defines him
in this way.
He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street.
A bruised reed he will not break and a faintly burning wick.
He will not quench.
He will faithfully bring forth justice.
He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law.
I'm sure the people in Isaiah's day, this was a nation that was hurting.
This was a nation
people of Israel that were longing for a new day.
They were dealing with very real worldly challenges, foreign armies, foreign nations that were coming in, their own nation being torn apart in various ways.
People who in some other ways had forgotten to follow the ways of the Lord, had forgotten the word of the Lord, had run towards other idols and other things to worship.
So Isaiah comes here in chapter 42 and other chapters of Isaiah and paints this picture for them of the one who was to come.
There would be a day when God would once again do a new thing.
God's servant, God's king would come into the world and he would rule.
He would rule with justice.
And justice in a simple definition of it just means to make things right for all the people.
He would rule with justice and he would make things right for all the people.
And I know the people then longed for justice.
They longed for this idea that God would someday work again when God would speak, when God would act in his creation, when God would set things right and make things new, as it says later on, opening the eyes of the blind, bringing out the prisoners from the dungeon.
What wonderful things to imagine and look forward to and hold on to.
And this
King was to be the servant of the people.
He would bring forth justice.
We wait for justice still in many ways in this life.
We hold on to the truths of what Christ our Lord has already done for us, and yet we know we live in the now and not yet.
So in many ways we can relate to the people in Isaiah's
Prophecy here, the people he was speaking to, where they're looking forward, they're waiting, they're longing for a new and greater day, and this is our prayer also, come quickly, Lord Jesus.
Lord have mercy, because we endure difficult things in this world and in this life.
But again, we cast our eyes to the one who was to come, the one who has come, the one who will come again,
the one we know as Jesus our Lord and we see some things about him here.
Some revelations of his character and what he would do first, he would not be loud and showy in administering his justice.
Verse two says, he will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street.
So what kind of king will this be?
He will come as a king, but not one who needs to shout, not one who needs
Not one who needs to rule in that way.
Not one who needs to demand that everyone bow down as he passes.
Not everyone who needs to, not one who needs to demand that his voice be heard above all the others, but rather maybe we get the idea that in his greatness, there is also humility in his work.
There is also stillness and quietness.
In his justice, there's also mercy and grace.
He's one who comes as a king, but not as one who would be loud and showy in the ways that might be expected.
Also, he comes and it says, and this one's a little harder for us to figure out what's being said, verse three, a bruised reed he will not break and a faintly burning wick, he will not quench.
What does that mean?
The word bruised is used a number of times in Scripture, and it has a little more emphasis and power than what we might give to it in our English language, to be bruised.
This is a severe thing, and it means actually some damage on the inside, or tearing, or crushing.
Not necessarily an outward mark, but something that has been crushed.
So what's being talked about here, a bruised reed
This is a read that has probably been crushed on the inside, possibly turned over, and the result of that will be, it will never bear fruit.
This can be a stand-in for Israel, for God's people, for a weary world, people that may never own bear fruit, people that may on their own never find the mercy or justice they long for, people who on their own may go searching after all of the other hopes in the world,
but need to know the one true hope of the Almighty God.
And how will he handle this bruised reed?
He will not break it, though it deserves to be broken.
Let's toss it aside.
It's never going to bear fruit, so let's just do away with it.
That's what most to till the ground would do, but not this one.
He will not break it.
And similarly, the faintly burning wick that he finds
He will save and not quench.
He will faithfully bring forth justice.
Maybe we get the idea with this as well, that could it be that there is one who finds the bruised reed and there's one who finds the faintly burning wick, could it be he has power to restore them, to lift them out of the darkness
out of the unfruitfulness, out of the difficulty to raise them up, could there be one who would come in that way?
And verse four, he will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth.
What good news that is for us.
We grow faint, we grow faint, we become discouraged,
and every king and every ruler, even the good ones, all of those who have come before him, all of those others who would stand in that place of authority and power and attempting to administer justice, everyone, every human person, they all grow faint.
None can rule perfectly.
None can stay the steady course forever.
But the promise here in Isaiah is that there is one.
There is one who never grows faint
who never becomes discouraged, he will establish his justice in the earth.
Now, considering these things, these promises, where do we see them?
I can imagine the people of Isaiah's day thinking, how?
What will this look like, a king who never stops ruling, a king who is so merciful beyond our understanding?
a king who is so faithful, a king who can bring true justice, how can this be?
What does God have in mind?
And I can imagine that they may have trusted in these promises and still not fully understood the grace of God and the work of God and the mercy of God because truly there are aspects of God that are beyond our comprehension, beyond our understanding.
And yet we are privileged to look back and see this one who did come, the one who fulfills these promises.
We see Him in God's Son, Jesus Christ, the one who's seasoned, we just got finished working through as we waited for Him during Advent and in Christmas as we see Him come as an infant, as a child, the promised one, as we see many come to understand what this means.
Now the mercy of God, the love of God has come down, the hope for the world is here and the Magi travel far so that they can get a glimpse of this child as well as they fall down in worship.
And as Jesus grows,
He grows in human ways into his earthly ministry.
His first act is to fall down and bow before the hand of another in the waters of baptism and allow these earthly waters to pour over him.
He is one who comes with justice.
He does administer the law and uphold the law, but he comes with undeniable humility
and mercy and ultimately sacrifice for his people.
And it's amazing, anyway, he's the only king who could ever do this, the only king who could ever fit this mold or uphold these things.
He has complete authority without ever needing to take it from anyone.
He has power without ever needing to crush anyone.
He has might
Without being violent, he grants mercy without letting people off the hook.
He administers justice by grace and sacrifice.
We find the fullness of Jesus character here in his baptism.
He humbly stepped down into this world.
He humbly became baptized, not that he needed.
He had no sin in himself that needed to be washed away, but he became the first.
The first one be baptized so that we also could walk in his baptism so that we know when we are baptized, we are being baptized in his name, in his work, in his power.
And we watch him go through his ministry.
He did rule with justice and with mercy and compassion for his people.
He lifted up the lowly, the prideful.
He brought low so that they also could hear the good news if they were able.
And ultimately, how does his kingdom come?
His kingdom comes as he takes the throne, but not an earthly throne, as we would imagine it, or as we might design it for him.
But he takes the throne, which is the cross.
He becomes broken.
His blood is shed.
The punishment for arson placed on his shoulders so that it might be taken forever.
He is the only one who can rescue us from the weariness of this world, from the plague of sin, of turning against one another, of harming one another, of the things that we do that we know that we shouldn't do and not doing the things that we know that we should do.
He's the only one that can rescue us from this plight and trap and circle of being stuck in the midst of sin and not only that, but death itself, which had,
power over us.
But he did not stay in the grave.
This is how we can know it's true.
He did not stay there.
He did not stay in the tomb.
He was raised again by the power of God, the authority of God, the power of God, the might of God was shown forth in this way that he had victory over death.
The thing that harms us and holds a weight over us, the most in this life and in this world, he conquered.
certainly, absolutely, completely.
And he rose to new life.
And just as in his baptism, as we were buried with him in baptism, in his death, in his resurrection being raised, we also have this promise that rests on each of our shoulders that is given to the people of God, that is given to those, his servants, all those who call upon his name, all of those that he holds in his mercy, he gives this same promise of life.
justice comes now partly, as Isaiah imagined it.
Justice does come now and his name, forgiveness is granted to us.
We live in his mercies, which are new every day, even now, and yet we wait for that last day.
That later day, when we will know for sure, when we will see him face to face, when we will live in his justice and his mercy and his goodness, and while all the tears of this world will fall away,
they will be no more, almost as if they never were, and we will live in his house forever.
This is his promise for us.
Today we see his baptism, we see his mercy, we see his humility, and we are invited today as every day to see the face of our Lord Jesus Christ, the true King, the humble King, the King who ruled by dying.
Amen.
I invite the congregation to stand.